#summary Hardware hacks for the N19
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

Progress on findings about the N19 hardware, and possible hacks done to it


= Details =

This is the landing page for the N19 hardware hacks. This is work in progress. Following any of the directions on this page will most likely *cause permanent damage to your phone* if you don't have the correct skills nor the correct tools. We, the custom-android-sciphone-n19 community shouldn't be made liable in case you lose money, data or hardware following any of these instructions.

== Findings ==

The main CPU is a Samsung `S3C2` (Part nº `s3c2448xl-4a`) processor, clocked at 400mhz. Datasheets and other stuff about the CPU may be found at the [http://www.samsung.com/global/business/semiconductor/mobilesocProductDown.do?userId=pq.wang@besovideo.com#component_SC32442 Samsung's page].

~~Reading from the init.rc script, there're capabilities for a GPS module on serial port 1 (serial port 0 is for the GSM module). The GPS module is referenced as a neo1973, and the `OpenMoko` Neo 1973 is using a UART GPS module named _Hammerhead PMB 2520_ AGPS from _Global Locate_, the people at `OpenMoko` have a driver for it at https://svn.openmoko.org/trunk/src/target/kernel/patches/gta01-power_control.patch implemented as a plugin for the GPSD daemon. Although there are no such device as _neo1973-pm-gps.0_ in _/sys/bus/platform/devices/_ folder. (note: *this is true*, because the [http://gpsd.berlios.de/ GPSD] plugins aren't kernel modules, they're implemented as a layer on top of the UART module, interpreting NMEA... much like xinetd, but less complicated... btw, probably any UART supporting NMEA conformant gps module can be used here).~~ Looks like the project OpenMoko ditched the hammerhead IC. Altough the GSM module is from the same brand as the Hammerhead.

=Bill of Materials for the N19=
|| *Item* || *Part No.* || *On-board?* ||
|| Processor || [http://custom-android-sciphone-n19.googlecode.com/files/SC32442B_UsersManual_MSP3_Rev12.pdf Samsung S3C2442] || Yes ||
|| LCD Driver || [http://custom-android-sciphone-n19.googlecode.com/files/ILI9331.pdf Ilitek ILI9331] || Yes ||
|| Power Management || Dialog Semiconductor DA9030 || Yes ||
|| NAND Flash || Samsung K9F1G08Q0M or SSB K9F1G08V0M || Yes ||
|| Camera Sensor || [http://www.ovt.com/products/detail.php?id=10 Omnivision OV2640] || Yes ||
|| [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-Chip_Module MCP] || K5D1G1G || Yes ||
|| Audio Codec || [http://www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/akm/en/product/ak4648/ak4648.html Asahi Kasei AK4648] || Yes ||
|| DRAM? || Samsung K5D1G1GACA-A075 || Yes ||
|| GSM Power Amplifier || [http://custom-android-sciphone-n19.googlecode.com/files/datasheet%20rf3196.pdf RFMD RF3196] || Yes ||
|| Group of power amp? || K5L3316CAM || Yes ||
|| GSM Module || Infineon 7880 || Yes ||
|| AGPS || ? || No ||